In this lesson we're going to talk about
how
functions can be used as regular objects
in Python.
I'm gonna show you some simple examples
where
we take a function and assign it to a
variable, and the where we take a function
and pass it as an argument to a function.
We're also going to introduce the concept
of higher order
functions which we'll discuss in more
detail in a later lesson.
So, let's get started.
We'll call this program funcobjs.py, or
f-u-n-c-o-b-j-s.py.
So let's work with some simple examples to
try to keep the presentation clear.
For example we have a simple square
function.
That takes a number and squares it and we
know how to use that function very simply
we can say, num equals 2 squarenum equals
square num and that will square the value
2 and store 4 in squarenum.
We can also assign this function to a
variable.
So for example I can write.
sqnumber equals square.
And then I can say, sqnum equals sqnumber
2.
And then we can print sqnum.
And then what it will display is the
result of this statement.
So let's save that.
And then run the code.
And you see that it returned four.
So what we've discovered is that a
function is just an object like any
other object in Python and we can assign
it to a variable should we choose to.
Another thing we can do with functions is
pass them as arguments to other functions.
So what I might do is I wanna introduce a
special function that's part of the Python
language called Map.
Map takes two arguments.
A function and a sequence of data and
it applies that function to the sequence
of data.
Let me explain what I mean and then show
you an example.
Let's say we have a list of numbers.
We'll keep it small.
If I square each number we're going to
get, 1, 4, 9, and 16.
So maybe I want to create another list
that has these numbers in it.
Squared, well of course, I could do it
through a loop where I create an empty
list
and loop through numbers and square each
number
that would take 3 or 4 lines of code.
I'm not going to write that code out but
you can imagine what
it would look like but instead we can use
this function called Map.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
create a new program, we'll call it
numbers squared.
And, we're going to assign it the result
of building a list out of
mapping the square function to our numbers
list, like so.
So, let's look at this in pieces.
So, the first piece is map square to
numbers.
So, what it's going to do is, it's going
to take each number.
And applied the squared function number
times number to it and that's going to
give a result, that result is then going
to be added to the list functions so that
we're going to have another list that can
consist of one squared, two squared, three
squared
and four squared and then to demonstrate
how
that works we can write out numbers
squared.
So let's save.
Let's clear the screen, run our program,
and there's our new list.
1,4,9, and 16.
Map is an example of what's called a
higher order function.
And if you're familiar with functional
language such as scheme or lisp or
ml then you've all ready been exposed to
the concept of high order functions.
But a high order function usually involves
calling another function as
an argument and that's what we're doing
right here as we're
using functions square in the call to
another function map which
actually is then used in yet another
function called to list.
In a couple of lessons, we're going to
look at
two other higher order functions and we'll
look at map again.
Those functions are filter and reduce.
But for now, I want to move to the next
topic of the chapter and that's where
we're going to look at how we can create
functions on the fly, to use with map.
By writing what are called anonymous
functions
and that's the topic of the next lesson.
[BLANK_AUDIO]